this lathe is a my third Super seven
serial number SK nine to four four it's
a screw cutting gap bed lathe with
automatic longitudinal feed and a swing
of seven inches diameter over the ways
the machine is back geared and has the
my firt quick change gearbox the range
of available spindle speeds extends from
35 rpm to 2500 rpm the lathe sits on a
my furred industrial cabinet and the
overall machine length is three feet
nine inches all feeds on this machine
are calibrated in imperial with engraved
inch markings on the tailstock barrel
and engraved scales in thousa
on the cross slide and compound there is
also quite useful ii and engraved scale
in fouls on the lead screw hand wheel
which enables close control of approach
distances and feeds in the x-axis
another useful feature of the machine is
the clutch enabling spindle start/stop
without having to power down the motor
four screw cutting the standard set of
gears with which the lathe is equipped
allows for cutting 72 different pitches
ranging from 8 threads per inch up to
500 threads per inch with additional
gears of course many other threads are
possible including metric threads
although many metric threads can be cut
using the standard imperial gears and my
firt provides a chart on the machine
cover showing how to set up the gear
trains for these metric threads for
setting thread angles the base of the
compound has an engraved scale
calibrated in degrees this machine is in
original paint
excellent operating condition with all
functions working it is available from
Marty in Al's head maine at telephone
two oh seven five nine six seven two six
six